---
layout: default
title: Readme
current: about
---

h2. Readme

bq. Young at heart 
 Fresh from the start 
 Step up into the next generation 

The International Formula Master (IFM) was the successor of the F3000 International Masters series. It was held as a supporting series during the European WTCC races from 2007 till 2009. The series was a junior Formula series which was thought as a stepping stone into the GP2 just like the Formula 3 Euro Series. The cars were manufactured by Italian based company Tatuus and were comparable to smaller single seaters like the Formula 3 cars. However they looked more like a small version of a pre-2009 Formula 1 car.

h3. Templates 

This are the templates accompanying the mod. Templates allow you to style your own cardesigns and load them in the mod. This is especially interesting for running individual liveries in leagues.

h3. Clay viewer

It's not new, that we release templates to our mods, However, one of the biggest challenges always was to provide you with good means of previewing. Nobody can paint on these complex textures without checking on the model, whether everything fits alright. To save you from constant switching between rFactor2 and your graphics software, we developed the Clay car viewer, an interactive 3D car visualizer running in your browser.   

h3. Contact

Read about our work on our "Website":http://www.ctdp.net and in our "Blog":http://devblog.ctdp.net.
Follow and contact us on "Twitter":http://www.twitter.com/team_ctdp or "Facebook":http://on.fb.me/pLY4z3.
Support us on "Flattr":https://flattr.com/profile/CTDP. 

h3. License

Templates sources and documentation are License under Creative-Commons-Attribution-Share-Alike.  
ClayServer is licensed GPLv2.
