---
layout: default
title: Preview 
current: about 
---

h2. Preview

As you paint your car designs in the graphics software of your choice, you will want to preview your texture on the actual model to see if all the lines and logos fit as expected.
To do this without having to check the texture ingame, we provided you with a new utility we call Clay to preview your texture as easily as possible.

Clay consists of two components, we'd like to explain here in a few words.

h3. Clay in your browser

Clay is a website. Clay is an interactive 3D viewer build in WebGL to run within your browser. This is supported by Chrome and Firefox and partially by Opera and Safari. The idea is, that you can open our IFM-model in this viewer, navigate, rotate, pan and zoom as you want to see all the details of the model and to preview your texture on the car.

h3. ClayServer

To open the Clay viewer, you need to start the server hosting it. In the templates package you can find the @clayserver.jar@. You need a Java Runtime Environment installed to execute the file and start up the server. As long as this application is running, the website is available in your local network at "http://localhost:20021":http://localhost:20021 

h3. How to preview your textures

Next to the clayserver.jar are two graphics called @carbody.jpg@ and @carbodyExtra0.jpg@. Those two are the textures for the livery of the displayed car. To Preview your own livery, export your texture from the source into each jpg. Afterwards start the server to preview, or just refresh if the preview is already running in your browser.

h3. Cool stuff

h4. Go local! 

WebGL is experimental, but support is getting better. Many Android tablets and Smartphones support WebGL and you can try to use the Viewer on your mobile device. As the server is available from anywhere in the local network just browse to the adress given in the server's application window.

h4. Go remote!

Using tools like "localtunnel":http://www.localtunnel.com, you can also tunnel the webviewer outside, to access it from a remote computer. Imagine working collaborative on a liviery with a friend, who can see your changes in live 3D. 

Please note, that the software is rather simple and not build for long term security, use it remotely under your own risk.

h4. Go naked!

ClayServer is Open Source on "github":http://www.github.com/CTDP/ClayServer. In the future we will provide with documentation on how to build something similar. In exchange we'd like to "get feedback":http://www.github.com/CTDP/ClayServer/issues, Fork it, improve and share.
